>>My name is Max Muller, I'm the director
the iTunes Store, Content Engineering Group.
My group is responsible for building the digital supply
chain that powers the iTunes, iBooks and App Store.
And this session we've divided into three sections.
The first we're going to look at the process of
publishing a new application to the App Store.
We understand that many of you are
already very familiar with this flow,
so we're going to go through it very quickly,
highlighting items that are new or recently updated.
Next, we're going to look at how you
enable your application in iTunes Connect
to take advantage of Game Center, as well as IM.
And finally, we're going to review some
of the tools that are available for you
to manage your applications once
they're live in the App Store.
Also throughout the presentation, we are
going to highlight some best practices as well
as some common pit falls that are easy to avoid.
So getting right into it, setting
up a new app in the App Store.
We are going to cover five topics today.
The first are Accounts and Contracts.
Get an account for publishing an app.
You first need to be a member of the iPhone Developer
Program, if you have that you will be able to log
into their portal, to register for your distribution profile
which you'll use to submit your binary to us later on.
Once you have an account there, you should be able
to access iTunes Connect at itunesconnect.apple.com.
The first time you log in, you will
land here, this is the home page.
Now if you are interested in having
a commercial relationship with us,
your first stop should be the contracts
module, second one down on the left.
Note that banking contact and tax information are required
if you plan on summiting a paid application to us.
If you plan on using In App Purchase Items, or if
you're planning on integrating the iAd Network.
A few things I would like to call out, the first is that you
make the decision upfront, if you would like to be entering
to this relationship as an individual or company.
The process of changing from an individual to a
company at a later point, can take several months.
And last, once you have access to iTunes Connect, we ask
you to start filling out the contracts as soon as possible,
don't wait until you actually submitted an
application to us to start the contract flow.
All right so now let's look at the process
of publishing a new app to the App Store.
Starting with the metadata.
To add a new app, you're going to log into iTunes Connect
and click on the Manager Applications
Module in the upper right hand corner.
Now if this is your first time logging into this module,
I highly suggest you download the Developer Guide,
linked in the bottom middle part of the page.
The Developer Guide contains detailed
examples of application publishing
and covers everything we are going
to cover today, and in more detail.
It is also updated about every month and a half to
two months, as we add new features to the portal.
So to add a new app, we're going to click on
the upper left hand button, Add a new app.
Now the first time you set up a new application, we
are going to prompt you for two pieces of information.
The first is your company name, this
is your brand within the App Store,
every application that you publish
will be listed under this name.
And the second is your primary App Store language.
What we're looking for here is what language, by default,
are you entering the metadata about your applications in.
This will come into play later on when you start to look
at how you localize your marketing
message and in the different storefronts.
The other thing to point out with these two pieces of
information is that currently we don't have any facility
for you to edit them, so you want to make
sure you get them right the first time.
Next up is Export Compliance.
The iTunes Store servers are located within the United
States, and as such, we are going to ask you five questions
about your use of encryption or
more specifically your bundling
of your own encryption libraries into your application.
If you answer yes to all five questions, we are going
to require that you upload a valid CCATS file to us.
Now one thing to point out is if you are only using
iPhone OS security frame works including HTTPS,
a CCATS form is not required.
So now let's look at the actual metadata that you are
going to be supplying to us about your application.
The first is your application name.
This is what is listed in the App Store.
A few best practices to call out
about your application name,
the first is that you should not use any trademark
names, unless you actually own the trademark.
We ask you to refrain from adding the words
beta or trial to your application name.
And your application name must match
the name of your app within your binary.
For instance, if I set up an app called Orange
Racing, but when the application actually launched,
it said Banana Racing my application would not be approved.
And last, we ask you that you actually
have intent to publish a binary to us
if you reserve an application name within iTunes Connect.
Next up is your description.
This is the text that a user can read about
your application before choosing to download it.
A few things to call out about your description, the
first is that it needs to be at least one sentence long,
putting the words TBD or a single period are not acceptable.
Also, we ask that you not to include any
profanity in your application description,
parental controls do not restrict
access to your descriptions.
Also when editing your description
bear in mind that it is a live edit
and it applies to all versions of your application.
And last, as Steve called out in keynote,
what you describe in your description needs
to actually match the functionality
of your binary once submitted.
You then choose to categorize or primary category
for app, copyright, and a version number.
Version number can't be changed until you
supply a new update to your application,
and a best practice we like to recommend you to keep your
version number in sync with the CFBundleShortVersion string.
A SKU, which will only appear in your financial
reports at the end of the month, and finally keywords.
Keywords help in the discoverability
of your app within the App Store.
This should be relevant to your application,
and again, you should not include trademarks
in your keywords unless you own those trademarks.
You can also provide some optional
fields about your application.
The first is a secondary category,
an application URL, and demo notes.
Demo notes are instructions to the review
team on how best to review your application.
They're not a forum for general
questions or miscellaneous notes.
And finally, you can provide a custom EULA, if you have one.
Next up are App advisories.
We're going to ask you to rank the frequency or
intensity of the following ten content descriptors,
based on your selections, we'll determine the
rating of your application within the App Store.
The App Store has a simple age based
rating system of 4+, 9+ 12+, and 17+.
We should point out that parents have
the option of restricting access to apps
of certain ratings, on both the iPhone as well as the iPad.
So now, let's take a small segue and
talk about In-App Purchase items.
In-App Purchases allow you to sell additional
content or services within your application,
and this was introduced in iPhone OS 3.0.
To enable your application to take
advantage of In-App Purchase items,
you want to log-in to the provisioning
portal, select the Bundle Identifier
that you are interested in, and
enable it for In-App Purchase.
Once you've done this, you can then log back into
iTunes Connect and add new In-App Purchase items.
When setting up a new In-App Purchases,
we require the following information.
The first is your bundle identifier, this will be
auto-populated from all of the bundle identifiers
that you have enabled in the provisioning portal.
Next is a reference name.
This is just your name for the item, and
will only appear within iTunes Connect.
Next is a product identifier.
This is how you'll actually retrieve
the offers, via StoreKit API.
This will also appear in your financial
reports at the end of the month.
A type. We offer three types of In-App Purchase
items, consumable, non-consumable, and subscription.
Consumable are those that are, we allow multiple, we
allow the customer to purchase repeatedly, for instance,
if you're selling 100 seeds or 100 bullets,
these will be things that you will use
up as part of the application or game play.
The second are non-consumable.
These are things that would enhance
your application, for instance,
if you're selling an additional map, or a race track.
Non-consumables are treated in the same
way as applications on the App Store.
Once a user has purchased an app, we always
allow them re-download it for free again.
Same works for a non-consumable In-App Purchases.
And finally subscription.
Subscription items, we allow the purchase, we allow the
customer to purchase repeatedly, so in that way they behave
in the same way as consumables, however,
the requirement on you, the developer,
is that for subscription In-App Purchase
items, you need to insure that they,
the user has access to this subscription
item across all devices that they own.
Finally a display name.
This will actually be retrieved
using StoreKit API's from the server
and displayed to the user in the purchase dialogue.
A description, and finally, a screen
shot for review purposes only.
A few best practices to call out about In-App Purchases.
The first is that you need to test your In-App Purchase
items thoroughly in the Sandbox, the test environment.
To do this, the first step is you need
to create Test Users in iTunes Connect.
You log in to the user's module,
and they're two types of users.
You want to select the Sandbox Test Account User.
For each storefront that you wish to test your In-App
Purchase items in, you want to set up a new user.
And finally, you should always use the StoreKit API's
to actually determine which offers are available.
This will determine if you've actually
set them up correctly in iTunes Connect.
There are two ways to submit In-App
Purchase items for review.
The first is ad hoc and the second is with a binary.
We recommend that you submit your In-App Purchase items
with a binary, this way you've tied the two together
and they will travel through the review process as one.
When your application is approved, you then know that
you're In-App Purchase items were likewise also approved.
All right, so let's now talk about pricing.
Both pricing for In-App Purchase
items, as well as applications.
When setting up pricing for an application, you need to
specify an availability date, this is the earliest date
at which your application can be
made available on the App Store.
A price tier, which we'll get to
in just a second, and clearance.
By default, clearance is assumed to be world-wide.
However, if that is not your intent, you
can choose which of the 90 countries you'd
like to make your applications available in.
The price tier, corresponds to both the
customer price as well as the proceeds.
In this example, for price tier 10, you can see the middle
column is the customer price that will be charged world-wide
and on the right-hand side, you can see your proceeds.
All of the countries not listed here that are
not in the Euro Zone, operate on the US dollar.
Added a few months back is date-based pricing.
It's available for both apps as
well as In-App Purchase items.
Essentially, it gives you a date time
range where you can specify a price tier.
You'll be setting a price tier, an
effective date, and optionally an end date.
In this example, I have a price, I have an
application that's normally a price tier 1 application,
but I've made it free for the month of June.
A few best practices to call out for pricing.
First, that pricing is global across all your version,
meaning when you're editing your pricing information,
you're making those changes across
all versions of your application.
Next is that In-App Purchase availability
is tied to your application.
If you pull your application from the Store,
you have likewise pulled also pulled all
of your In-App Purchase items from the Store.
All right, last topic that we want to cover
are the assets required for submitting
and setting up a new app on the App Store.
The first one is your binary icon.
This is the icon, that you'll, it is actually part that
you specify in your Info.plist file of your application.
We require a 57 by 57 for iPhone and iPod touch apps.
Now we've added iPhone 4, with its high dpi screen,
we are also asking that you include
a 114 by 114 version of your icon.
If you're doing iPad only apps, you
need to be specifying a 72 by 72 icon.
And finally, for universal, you need to provide
a 57 by 57, a 72 by 72,and a 114 by 114.
Note rounded corners and shine are
automatically added by the App store, however,
if you'd like to pre-shine your icon, the App
Store will honor the UIPrerenderedIcon key,
as specified in your Info.plist file.
And last, we ask you not to write the words
free or any pricing information in your icons.
Added on iPhone OS 3.0, are device capabilities.
Device capabilities allow you, if you application
absolutely requires that the device have a given capability,
say a camera or cellular capabilities, you'll specify
this in the array of UIRequiredDeviceCapabilities.
Note that the App Store will prevent purchase of
your application onto any device that does not,
does not have all of the specified device capabilities, and
iTunes will prevent syncing your application onto any device
if all of those capabilities are not present.
Here's some example capabilities.
Note that with iPhone 4, we've now
added Gyroscope, Front-facing camera,
and Camera flash to the list of
capabilities that you can specify.
Next asset, we're going to ask you
for a 512 by 512 version of your icon.
It should be 72 dpi RGB, we set PNG, JPEG, or TIFF.
And this is a big one, your large
icon needs to match identically,
your 57, your 72 and your 114 dimensioned icons.
If none of those, if those icons do not all
match, your application will not be approved.
Next asset is Screenshots.
For iPhone and iPod touch, you can provide
up to five screenshots, either 320 by 480,
or you can now provide 640 by 960 for high-dpi screenshots.
For iPad only and universal apps, you'll provide
five additional iPad dimension screenshots.
And a few things to call out about your screenshots.
The first is to insure that they are age-appropriate.
If your application is rated 4+, then your
screenshots, likewise, should be rated 4+.
Another thing we always ask you to do is to remove
the status bar from all of your screenshots.
Now, if you pre-upload checks that you want to
check about your binary before you upload it to us.
The first is cellular bandwidth.
If you're using the Cellular Network,
we ask that you double-check
that you are abiding by the Developer Guideline Rules.
Next is iPod touch functionality.
If you've not restricted your application, please
ensure that it works across all of Apple's devices.
And as Steve pointed out, please
test your applications thoroughly.
The top three reasons application are
not approved is because they crash
on launch or crash during the review process.
And finally, calling out again, the binary icon mismatch.
Ensure that all of our binary's match exactly.
So now that you're ready to upload your
binary to us, you have two options.
The first is to upload it via iTunes Connect.
Second is to use the ApplicationLoader.
ApplicationLoader is located in the
Utilities folder of the iPhone SDK.
Optimized for UDP delivery, it's faster than iTunes
Connect and it performs dozens of validation checks
on your machine before it uploads to us, and it's what
we recommend for all binary submission, at this point.
And as of today, we're now accepting
iOS 4 binaries, so if you have.
[Applause]
>>All right, all right.
So if you have iOS 4 binaries that
you want to get in for launch,
you want to start getting those
uploaded to us as soon as possible.
And with that, I'd like bring Jason Fosback up,
Engineering Manager for the iTunes Store
Content Delivery Team to give us a demo.
>>Jason Fosback: Hi everyone, I'm Jason Fosback,
Manager of Content Delivery for the iTunes Store.
I want to walk you through a quick demo here of checking
our metadata, because I've already prepared metadata
for an application, then actually building an
application and delivering it to the iTunes Store.
So I'm going to go ahead and start Safari here,
and I'm going to log in to iTunes Connect
with your Apple Connect credentials.
And we're going to go here to Manage your Application.
Here we already have Touch Fighter set up, and you'll
notice here that the status is waiting for upload.
I'll touch on that a little bit more later,
but that's something important to note.
I'm going to go ahead and edit the information now so
we can walk through all of the information to make sure
that everything looks good before
we submit our binary to the Store.
So as Max had mentioned, one of the important things
that may prevent your binary from being approved is
that your application description needs to
actually match what the application does.
So I just want to review here that my description is still
correct and that I haven't done anything to my application
to make it not valid, so that looks good.
So, I want to check my category here, and it's a game,
which is correct, and I want to look at my sub-category,
which is action, which applies to the
particular binary we're uploading here.
So the copyright looks correct, and my keywords look
good, they're definitely applicable to my application.
The application URL, support URL and
support email address all look great.
So let's go ahead and move on to the next tab.
So the advisories here have a number of different
settings for frequency here, as you notice,
as you change the settings here, the, what we're actually
going to rate your application dynamically updates
on the page so that you can make sure that, you know, what
you're devising and how that's going affect your end user.
So our application has infrequent
or mild cartoon fantasy violence,
and that looks great, so let's go ahead and move on.
So I'm going to skip over Game Center her for a second,
because we'll touch on that a little
bit later, go to the upload tab.
One of the things I want to do here is make sure
that the application icon actually matches, still,
the application icon for my binary, and
in this case, it happens to be good.
And then I also want to verify that my screenshot is still
appropriate and still matches what the application does.
This is a 320 by 480 screenshot and that looks great.
So now, let's go ahead and move on to the next tab.
Localization.
Now, I've actually localized this application to French,
so that our French users can actually get an
accurate description of what the application is.
So I've noticed here that I've got the French description
here, and some French keywords, that all looks great,
so let's move on to the next tab, pricing.
Max had mentioned that pricing, the accept
and availability date, and in our case,
I've actually set the availability date to December
31, 2010 because I don't want it to go live just yet.
You'll notice that here.
And I want to check my price tier, because, obviously,
you want to make sure that what you're charging
for you application is what you really intend to.
So, you can click here on your price
tier, price tier 10 and you'll notice
that the customer price is 9.99,
and your proceeds is 7 dollars.
That looks like what I want to charge for the
application, so let's move on to the summary page.
Summary page basically gives you
a one quick stop look for what all
of your metadata is going to look
like on a particular storefront.
So, in this case, we've localized to French, so I
want to go to the France Storefront and just make sure
that everything updates properly
and that what I expect to see
on the France Storefront looks
correct, and that looks good to me.
So let's go ahead and log out now of
iTunes Connect and build our application.
One of the things that we added for Xcode 3.2 and
higher, or sorry the iPhone SDK 3.2 and higher,
is the ability to actually validate your application
offline every time that you build your product.
So here in your settings for building, you'll actually
notice there's a new setting called Validate Built Product,
and we can check that, and now
every time I build my application,
we're going to actually perform all
the Store validations that we perform
or can perform offline, on your binary right when you build.
So let's go ahead and bring up the Build
panel, make sure that our device is correct
and that our target is right, distribution
and iPhone Device 3.1.
Let's go ahead and build it.
So you'll notice here that there are a few errors saying
that the icon specified in the Info.plist can't be found.
All right, well, let's go take a look at our Info.plist
for the application and see what might be wrong.
So here's the icon file that I've specified here, and I
notice that actually I've actually spelled this incorrectly,
so I need to fix that, because the icon's actually called
TouchFighter.png, I want to save it, let's go ahead
and head back her to Build panel and build
again, and this time it built successfully.
So now, we're actually ready, almost,
to deliver it to the Store.
So we go down here to Products, right-click,
reveal our application in the Finder, compress it,
so that it's actually ready to be delivered
to the Store, and then I'm just going
to drag this onto the Desktop to easily find it.
One of the other changes we made in the iPhone OS
3.2 SDK is that we actually moved Application Loader
down into Developer, Applications,
Utilities, and there it is.
So I've already set, gone through Application Loader
once and entered my iTunes Connect information,
which is usually the first thing that happens when you
start up Application Loader, so it's not actually going
to ask us anything, at this point, about our credentials.
So it will actually connect to the Store, and as I
mentioned before, it will look for any applications that are
in the Waiting for Upload state and
display them here in this pop-up.
So we're going to choose that, TouchFighter,
and it's asking us right now if we've qualified
and tested this for iPhone OS 3.0 and yes, we have.
So here, it just gives us some, you know, a brief
summary of some of the attributes of our application
so that we can verify that this
is really the application metadata
that we want to upload the binary against, and it is.
So now let's choose the binary, and there
it is, the TouchFighter ZIP that we created.
And let's go ahead and send it to the Store.
Now, when you do this, Application Loader actually does
all the same validations that are performed in Xcode now,
as well as some, what we call connected
validations, which is where we talk to the Store
and actually verify your minimum OS version is
correct, your bundle identifier hasn't changed,
and some other things like that, so the important
thing to realize here is that underneath the hood,
we're actually using a very robust transport
mechanism to send your binary to the Store.
It uses a secure UDP transport protocol, and it attempts
to use that and if your network is not configured
to allow that, we'll actually fail over to HTTPS,
so it will actually ultimately fall
back to what you do at iTunes Connect.
The important thing here to remember
though, is that you can deliver
up to 10 times faster using Application
Loader than with iTunes Connect.
So, our application has been successfully
uploaded and we're now done.
With that, I'd like to turn it back over to Max.
[Applause]
>>Max: All right, thank you Jason.
All right, so that's what we wanted to show for
setting up a new application in iTunes Connect.
So, now let's look at how you enable your application
to take advantage of Game Center as well as iAd.
And to do that, I would like to bring up Ricardo
Cortes, Engineering Manager for iTunes Store,
Provider Services Group to walk
us through Game Center and iAd.
[Applause]
>>Ricardo Cortes: Thank you Max.
Let's take a look at Game Center first.
Game Center is new for iOS 4.
It provides a social gaming network that includes
Invitations, Matchmaking, Leaderboards and Achievements.
There are three steps involved, which
respect integration with iTunes Connect,
you need to do to enable your app for Game Center.
Let's look at registration.
And like fashioned In-App Purchases, you need to go
back to the iPhone Provisioning Portal, go to App IDs,
find your app and enable that bundle
identifier for Game Center.
Go back to iTunes Connect, we have a new
tab, the third tab over, called Game Center,
and you need to click that Enable button
to enable your app for Game Center.
Upon doing so, you can now select the
bundle identifier in the drop-down.
Let's go to the metadata involved with Game Center.
First, you have your Leaderboard.
We have an identifier that goes along with that
Leaderboard and, again, we recommend reverse domain syntax.
A language, we have 14 languages you can choose from.
You want to localize your Leaderboard
in as many languages as possible.
We have a sort order, whether you want your scores
to be sorted ascending or descending, in other words,
do you want the top score at the top, or
do you want the top score at the bottom.
We also have a score format.
All scores for Game Center is sent over as
64-bit ints, so we need to format that score
to represent it correctly in the
Leaderboard, within Game Center.
Three examples are integer, with no
decimals, float, with decimals, and money.
Here we're showing US dollars, we also have support for
Kronos, Francs as well as Pounds and a few other currencies.
We also have 17 other formatters you can choose from.
We also have a score format suffix.
If your game is centered around gold
coins, and you have a Leaderboard
that represents who's collected the most gold coins, you
might want to represent that at the end of the score.
So you might have 250 gold coins in
English and 250 gold coins in Spanish.
Let's look in the example.
In this example, in iTunes Connect,
I have set up a Leaderboard,
Leaderboard ID is com.apple.touchfighter.leaderboard.
I've chosen to sort these scores ascending, and I've set up
two formatters, both are integers, in English and Spanish,
and one has a score format suffix of gold
coins and the other of gold coins in Spanish.
That's Leaderboards, let's look at achievements.
Achievements also have an identifier.
Again, we recommend reversing domain
syntax there, same set of 14 languages,
and they have a pre-earned description
and a post-earned description.
A Pre-earned description is what you entice your users in
Game Center in the app to go out and achieve the achievement
that you've set up, It's akin to the trophy.
And the post-earned is, a little congratulations
to the user once they've earned it.
You can also assign the achievement a point value
and we're going to require a 512 by 512 PNG,
TIFF or JPEG, it represents the achievement.
Let's look at a multi-player compatibility.
Multi-player compatibility allows different
versions to be compatible within the same app.
If you're enabling Game Center in an existing app
on the Store, it's likely that you have not had,
added the code to enable Game Center, so you'll
need to have some version logic to figure
out which versions can play with each other.
This controls two major features within
Game Center; Matchmaking and Invitations.
With respect to matchmaking, you might want
to find someone to play with, randomly.
And invitation you might know the person you want to
invite to play with, and so you'll send them an invite
to play the game, and you want to make sure they
can play the same version of the app that you can.
Lastly, let's look at testing.
Again, iOS 4 is required.
And development builds automatically use the Sandbox,
there's nothing that you need to do as a developer
when you're using Development Environment to
hit our Sandbox Environment for Game Center.
And likewise, apps that are purchased off the
store use the Production Environment automatically.
If you want to test to ensure that your localization is
setup correctly, and your localizations you've added,
including score formatters, need to
be localized correctly across locales.
And on-device testing is required.
It's not sufficient to test your
use of Game Center on a simulator.
Feature availability; what's available today?
Right now in iTunes Connect, you can go and set up your
Leaderboard and you can play around with Game Center,
which is in Preview Mode, and do Sandbox testing.
Later this year we're introducing achievements,
compatibility, multiple leaderboards and binary submission.
One note on binary submission, we are not accepting
binaries that have Game Center code added to them,
so if you need to update your binary, you'll need to remove
the Game Center's OS or accommodate it out for submission.
Let's look at iAd; iAd is also a new feature for iOS 4.
It is Apple's Mobile Advertising
platform, and if you saw the keynote,
you'll know that there is some really
crazy rich media support built into iAd.
It's easy to implement with the iAd framework and you need
to join the iAd Network to run ads and receive revenue.
There's a new contract, we'll get into in a second.
The steps for enabling your app with iAd begin
with Contracts, it's an iAd specific agreement
and it's co-terminus with your Program
License Agreement, the 99 dollar fee,
as well as the paid contract if you filled that out.
It is required to receive non-test ads.
And in this screenshot you see in the contract module in
iTunes Connect, the iAd Network contract is highlighted.
One thing to note is you'll need to sign the
latest PLA to even get access to the iAd Network.
You will not be able to request, until doing so.
Next step is to enable your app for iAd.
You do this by logging into iTunes Connect, and creating
a new app, or updating, and clicking the Enable Ads button
as well as answering the Primary Audience question.
Upon doing so, you can select your
bundle notifier in iTunes Connect.
Note, this is different from Game
Center, you do not have to go
to the Provisioning Portal to set up your bundle identifier.
Lastly, once you've set up iAd, and you delivered
your binary, you want to monitor how your app is doing
with those ads, and with that, you go to
the iAd Network module in iTunes Connect.
It's a new module that we've introduced with iOS 4, you can
do your revenue, most importantly, your add impressions,
your click-thru rates and many other stats about your app.
You can also specify exclusions for those competitors
that you would not wish to have ads in your app.
In this screenshot, you'll see the iAd Network
module, below In-App Purchases, above promo codes.
You will not be enabled for the iAd Network
until you sign the iAd Network contract.
Upon clicking the iAd Network module, you'll
see a summary of how your app is doing
in the last 7 days with respect to revenue and eCPM.
You also can get graphical representation of
your data across revenue, impressions, requests,
eCPM, click-thru rates as well as fill rates.
You can also find your apps and view them
specifically and inspect their details.
In this example, I have two apps, I have TouchFighter
1.0 and TouchFighter 2.0; 1.0 is a live app,
you can see that with the green status saying Live Ads.
It also has revenue and requests and impressions.
I can then inspect that app, get more details about it.
I can see the minimum OS requirements, its languages,
supported languages, as well as the name and the rating.
To specify exclusions, you can enter
an Apple ID, a URL or a keyword.
In this example, I'm entering Meteoroids, it will then show
up in a currently excluding section below with DeepSpace
and ShapeShipDeluxe, two of my competitors.
And with that, I'd like to bring Aloke Bhatnager up to
stage, he's going to walk us through iAd and Game Center.
[Applause]
>>My name is Aloke Bhatnager and I'm the
Engineering Manager for iTunes Connect.
As Ricardo mentioned, there are two things
that you are going to do for iAd setup
and I'm going to demo iAd and Game Center for you.
So, two things that you need to do for
iAd setup are, setting up your application
to be ad enabled, and requesting your iAd contract.
So let's log into iTunes Connect
and see those two things then.
I'm going to click on the Contracts module, and as you can
see over here, I've requested the iAd Network contract,
and I've entered my banking and tax info.
After a little while, the contract goes into effect
and that's the first step that you need to take.
Now I'm going to click in Manage your Applications.
I have two iAd enabled applications setup over here,
TouchFighter, which is ready for sale and TouchRacer,
which I'm still playing around in Sandbox and testing
a bunch of things, so it's waiting for upload.
So, once you've done those two things, as you can see, a new
module called iAd Network shows up, let's click into that.
So when you first come over to the screen, you're presented
with an aggregate view of real revenue data and a bunch
of other statistics for across all your applications,
and the statistic that you can see are revenue
in the last 7 days, revenue to date, eCPM
average last 7 days, and eCPM average to date.
We have a graph listing your revenue, you can hover over
it to get all kinds of information at various data points,
and you can get different data for revenue, impressions,
requests, eCPM, click-through rate and fail rate,
and of course, you can switch and
do bar graph and line graph mode.
If you don't know what these mean,
you can click into the Help Link here
and it will expand what each one of these means to you.
So as I've mentioned, this was a aggregate view about the
application, but right now I'm just focused on TouchFighter,
which is getting live art versus the other
application which I was playing around with in Sandbox.
So, let's look into that.
So I clicked into the application, now I'm
only seeing data about the application itself.
Now my application is only selling in the US,
which is why I only see that country over here,
but if your application is selling in more countries,
you can drill down further by clicking
into one of these countries.
So the graph is very similar to the aggregate
view, so I'm not going to go into that.
What I am going to show is how you can edit
your application exclusions at this point,
so you click the Edit button, and you click Exclusions.
So Spaceship Deluxe is a TouchFighter competitor, so
I'm, I've already added that to the exclusions list,
and let's assume that Acme Corp is also one of the
competitors, so I'm going to go ahead and add it,
and it shows up in the list, and I can check either one of
these and click remove whenever I want to, and hit Done.
And with that, that's the iAd demo.
So, I click back into iTunes Connect,
I'm going to demo Game Center for you.
Click Manage your Applications, TouchRacer, Edit
information, and as Ricardo and Max mentioned earlier,
there's a new tab called Game Center in iTunes Connect now.
This application hasn't been enabled for Game
Center yet, so I'm going to click enable,
since I already chose a bundle identifier for iAd for
the application, I do not have to choose this again
for Game Center, if this application wasn't iAd enabled,
I would get a drop down to chose
my bundle identifier over here.
As you can see there's no Leaderboard set up yet for
this application, so let's go ahead and click Set-up.
Let's give it a nice Leaderboard ID,
something like hey com.apple.touchracer.
Now you can chose what sort order you want depending on how
you want to display the scores, I chose ascending for this,
and you can add various localizations, so let's go
ahead and add a language, let's do English first,
and these are the formatters that Ricardo mentioned earlier,
let's choose integer for now, and
I'm going to enter gold coins.
And it shows up.
Let's go ahead and add another localization,
Spanish this time, choose the formatter,
and enter the Spanish localization, hit Save
Changes, and your Leaderboard is all set up.
>>Max: All right, thank you Aloke.
And that's the iAd as well as the Game Center setup.
So now let's look at some of the
tools that are available for you
to manage your applications once
your apps are live on the Store.
So the first are Financial Reports, Financial
reports are posted on a monthly basis.
For every proceed, currency that you
generated revenue in the previous month.
To get your financial report, click
on module Financial Reports.
Every report that we've ever posted for you is always
available for you to download, simple CSV format.
If you can't wait until the end of the month to find
out how your applications are doing,
we also offer daily and weekly trends.
To get to the Sales and Trends Module, upper left-hand
corner, select your report type, as well as your period,
daily or weekly, we store up to 26 weeks worth
of data for you to look at your sales and trends.
Next step are Promo Codes.
Promo codes are a great way for
you to promote your applications.
They provide a royalty free download for a paid
application, they're for non-commercial distribution only.
Every version that you have approved will
allow you to generate up to 50 codes,
once a code has been generated,
it will expire after 4 weeks.
Note that the iTunes Connect user must have the legal
role, in order to be able to generate promo codes,
and they are available to redeem for accounts
with US, have US iTunes Store accounts.
To get to your promo codes, you're going to want
to click on the module Request Promotional Codes.
Here in the drop-down, we'll give you a list of all of
your applications that are eligible for promo codes,
enter the number of codes you wish to
generate, click Continue to download a CSV file.
Next up are Crash Reports.
We have lots of users out there who have elected to
send us information about misbehaving applications.
If you suspect that your application might be
one of those misbehaving apps, you can log in
and click on the Crash Reports link at the top.
Crash Reports are generated on demand, we'll collect
the last 14 days worth of data for your application.
Note across the top, we give you a
broken down by an iPhone OS version.
The first section are the crashes, we collate the
top 10 most frequent crashes of your application,
and for each unique crash point, we'll give you up to
10, up to 5 example stat traces that you can download,
load in Xcode to help you debug the issue.
Next, we'll give you the timeouts, either timeout on
launch, timeout on quit, or being force quit by the user.
For each one of these, again, well
provide up to five example stat traces.
And finally for all of the reports that were submitted
to us, we give you a breakdown of crashes versus timeouts
versus memory, this way you can kind of get a real good
feel for where you need be focusing your debugging energies.
Next up are Customer Reviews.
It was added about a few months back, get to all of the
customer reviews for a given version of your application,
log in and click on the Customer Reviews link at the bottom.
Here it will give you a country pop-up,
you can select the different countries
to see all the reviews for your application, nice easy spot.
And finally App delete.
This is going live actually today, so you
can stop putting the words iTunes Connect,
please delete me as part of your application name.
To delete your application, log in, inspect
your app, and we now have a Delete button
in the bottom left-hand corner, right there.
When you delete it, we're going to pop-up a nice scary
confirm message, because at this point it's going
to disappear from iTunes Connect,
if it's available for sale,
it will disappear from the Store, for
all intents and purposes, it's gone.
And those are some of the tools that we have
to help you manage your applications,
once they're live in the App Store.
Well, actually we do have one more
tool that we'd like to show you today.
It's my pleasure to introduce iTunes Connect Mobile.
[ Applause ]
This allows you to track your apps
and how they are doing on the go.
Now we're really happy with how well this application's
turned out and we think it's going to be an invaluable tool
to you to track the performance of
your applications on the App Store.
So this is literally been one of the most
highest requested developer features.
We started off giving you easy access to daily and
weekly sales data, you can either slice it by apps
or by the different markets, we've integrated
in some really nice looking graphs and charts
to help you visualize this data, and
it will available later on today.
So with that, I would like to bring Ricardo back up
on stage to give us a demo of iTunes Connect Mobile.
[ Applause ]
>>Ricardo: Thank you Max.
I had a feeling you guys might like this little surprise.
My team's worked pretty hard to get this ready for you
guys today, so I hope you like what we have to offer.
Let's click on iTunes Connect Mobile.
You're prompted with a login screen,
it's the same login screen you use
for iTunes Connect, your username and password.
And upon signing in, you see a breakdown in segments
of Paid Apps, Free Apps, In-App Purchases and updates,
you also see a trend pane across the top from one day
all the way to 26 weeks, and a trend pane at the bottom,
a time period at the top, and a trend
pane at the bottom, for graphical view.
You can click on Paid Apps, to see how
you did, say in the two-week period.
You did 25 thousand units and a two-week prior,
you're actually down 6,500 units from two-weeks prior.
You can also see the percentage
change and get back to the units.
Switching to the products tab at the bottom here, we'll list
the top 10 products that are currently selling on the store.
Here you see TouchFighter as well a few other apps.
There's a segmentation control, switch between Sales and
Updates, if you're interested in your update numbers.
Again, you can get the percentages as well as the
differences in that same time period, two weeks.
At the bottom, if you swipe the trend pane, you get
your binary icon, Apple ID and bundle identifier,
a few essential pieces of information about
the app, and if I rotate into landscape view,
you also get a trend pane that's bigger
and you can apply a HUD across that.
Sales, the Sales and Update segmentation control is
still there, and then you can swipe in landscape view
to get subtotals across the time period that you
previously selected, so I previously selected two weeks,
I get daily subtotal across this
time periods for Sales and Updates.
I can also get a weekly breakdown of the same time period.
Previously selected two weeks,
so I get two weeks of subtotals.
Rotating back to portrait, let's go to Markets, here again,
we'll show you the top 10 territories
in which you're selling your apps.
And at the bottom, we have an others row, which
collates all the rest of your territories.
Now let's say you have an app, it is not in the top 10,
maybe it's 11 or 50 or 100, and some of you have upwards
to 9 thousand, 10 thousand apps, you can search for it,
and get the same information you would
if you had found it in the Products tab.
Again, trend pane at the bottom and you can
rotate in landscape and get daily subtotals,
weekly subtotals, as well as a detailed trend graph.
Finally, the last tab at the bottom, lists your
account, you can autofill the account so you don't have
to remember the account every time
you log in, and the version number.
You can also sign out of iTunes Connect Mobile if you wish.
As Max mentioned, it's available today, it will be going up
as a link in iTunes Connect in the next three to four hours.
You will not be able to find it on the Store, you
will have to use iTunes Connect to download it.
Hope you guys enjoy it.
[ Applause ]
>>Max: All right, thank you Ricardo.
Now obviously that's the first of many updates we
hope to be bringing to you in the mobile space;
iTunes Connect Mobile, so it will be posted later on today.
You will log in to iTunes Connect, you should have
a link into the App Store, as Ricardo mentioned,
you won't be able to actually search for iTunes
Connect Mobile within the normal App Store.
And that's what we had to cover today, so if you, for more
information Mark Malone was the Evangelist for this session,
on the documentation front, iTunes Connect Developer Guide.
A few other related sessions, Integrating Ads
with iAd is tomorrow in Pacific Heights, 9 am,
Introduction to Game Center is
in Presidio tomorrow at 11:30.